torbrowser(1) -- Tor Browser Update and Start Script
=============================================

<span class="comment">
# This file is part of Whonix.
# Copyright (C) 2012 - 2014 Patrick Schleizer adrelanos@riseup.net
# See the file COPYING for copying conditions.

# Not using angle brackets in copyright notice for e-mail address, because
# angle brackets would result in this file being non-deterministic. (There
# must be a bug in Debian wheezy in ruby-ronn.)

# Not using "##", because for some reason this comment would be visible in the
# resulting man page.
</span>

## SYNOPSIS
`torbrowser` option(s)

## DESCRIPTION
You can use `torbrowser` to start Tor Browser from the command line.

## OPTIONS
  * --recommend

    Recommended way to start Tor Browser. It opens two offline html pages,
    Whonix Important Blog and Whonix Feature Blog, which are supposed to keep
    you safe by informing you about latest developments.

  * --doc

    Opens Whonix Online Documentation.

  * --start

    Only starts Tor Browser.

  * --new-tab url

    Opens an `url` in a new tab.

  * --new-window url

    Opens an `url` in a new window.

  * --language lang

    Specify which language specific version of Tor Browser you want to start or
    update.

## AVAILABLE LANGUAGES

As in October 2012:

* ar
* de
* en-US
* es-ES
* fa
* fr
* it
* ko
* nl
* pl
* pt-PT
* ru
* vi
* zh-CN

## MORE LANGUAGES

To check if further languages are supported visit:

* https://www.torproject.org/dist/torbrowser/linux/
* http://idnxcnkne4qt76tg.onion/dist/torbrowser/linux/

## CONFIG FILE

/etc/whonix.d/30_torbrowser

## ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
You could use:

    export TB_LANG="<language code>"

to set the language before running

    torbrowser

For example, for Vietnamese use:

    export TB_LANG="vi"

Replace "vi" with "zh-CN" for Chinese and so on.

To make this change permanent, create a file `/etc/whonix.d/50_torbrowser` and add for
example

    TB_LANG="ar"

## EXIT CODES
0 Success

1 Error

## EXAMPLES
`torbrowser --recommend`

`torbrowser --start`

`torbrowser --new-tab https://www.whonix.org`

`torbrowser --new-window https://www.whonix.org`

`torbrowser --recommend --lang="ar"`

## NOTES
Do not run as root!

## PORTING
This script is currently only tested in Whonix. It could be easily made to work
in Tails or on any Linux.

## WWW
https://www.whonix.org/wiki/Tor_Browser

## AUTHOR
This man page has been written by Patrick Schleizer (adrelanos@riseup.net).
